====================================
GTE 201.1 Basis and Reference Groups
====================================

-------------------
Learning Objectives
-------------------

* Create and manage reference and basis groups
* Understand the difference between reference groups and basis groups
* Implement lifecycle requirements for subject attributes

--------------
Lab Components
--------------

* Grouper
* `Grouper Deployment Guide`_

--------
Overview
--------

Often the best source of data for building institutional meaningful cohorts is a
combination of arcane employee/payroll/student codes from multiple source systems.
To leverage the power of Grouper these groups should be brought in as raw **basis groups**. 

Basis groups are used by the IAM analyst to construct institutional meaningful
cohorts that are required for access policy.  Access policy does not reference
basis groups directly, rather the basis groups are used to build up reference
groups.  This indirection provides the IAM analyst the ability to adjust to
changing source systems and business practices while keeping reference groups
and access policy relatively stable. Basis groups are typically only visible to
the IAM analyst, and would not normally be reflected out to applications and
directories.

Reference groups tend to be organized in particular folder locations for convenience
and ease of use, but what makes a group a reference group is not its name or folder
location, but rather its intended use, definition and scope, and data management
expectations.

A **reference group** is a set of subjects that is largely intended to be used by
reference within access policy.  Reference groups can be thought of as labels or
tags that identify institutional meaningful cohorts. In this way, they can also
be viewed as subject attributes from an ABAC perspective. Access policies often
require cohorts organized via institutional affiliation (faculty, staff, student),
a particular office or department (president's office, finance division, chaplain),
program (chemistry students), and even residence or class year. All of these are 
good examples of reference groups.

This module will focus on creating and using basis and reference groups related to
students.

----------------
Exercise 201.1.1
----------------

*Create an all student reference group to be used in access policy and the all
students mailing list*

Reference groups for student by class year already exist. These are being
used for class year mailing lists.  Membership in these are updated
automatically by loader jobs:

* `ref:student:class2019`
* `ref:student:class2020`
* `ref:student:class2021`
* `ref:student:class2022`

#. Create a new reference group representing all students, `ref:student:students`.
#. Add the class year reference groups as direct members to `students`.  How
   many students are there?  Filter by *indirect membership*.
#. You remember that recently graduated students have a grace period of 6 months
   during which they retain full student access.  Add `ref:student:class2018` to
   `ref:student:students`, and set the membership end date to Dec. 31, 2018.  How
   many students are there now?

   .. note::

        In this case, recently graduated students are still considered to be students
        for the purpose of access control.  If recent graduates only retained a few
        services, it might make more sense to add these former students to individual
        allow policies for the services in question.

----------------
Exercise 201.1.2
----------------

*Other Students*

You remember that not all students have class years assigned.  This includes part-time
students, employees taking courses, and non-matriculated students.  Fortunately data 
about these students is available in the SIS and a basis group has already been created
for us.

#. Add `basis:student:student_no_class_year` to `ref:student:students`.  How many
   students are there, now?


.. _Grouper Deployment Guide: https://spaces.at.internet2.edu/display/Grouper/Grouper+Deployment+Guide+Work+-TIER+Program
